## Getting back in the saddle

>"Nothing in this world that/'s worth having comes easy."
>-Bob Kelso (Scrubs), how you doin?

My name is Leon Locksley Jukelis, what are my qualifications? 

I am human. I am flawed. I overthink the simple stuff and jump the gun on the important stuff. on April 24th 2020 I discovered software development thanks to a friend of mine seeing the potential i had and a field i could thrive in. I went to a coding bootcamp and failed twice, but thanks to those failures i learned my limits before burning out and that relying on the opinions of others to determine your skills as a programmer is not a good idea. Even through all that embarassment and mental strain, i kept getting back on that horse and these diaries are my tale of my progress as a developer. 

Why do you ask? why do we need another dev telling their story about being a programmer? Because when I was young I wanted to be an inventor, but my mom told me "son, everything you wanna invent is already being made by someone else." So with that in mind, if there are people like me with the same struggles and persuits, why not help them and let them know someone understands what they're going through and may hopefully learn from my experiances. 

The primary audience are me, my clients (as these are also progress reports with their permission), you the reader who either wants to laugh at bad writing or like me learns best through the eyes of others. My goal with these diaries are to process my thoughts in a written format to better engrain what i have learned and to write out the problems and solutions for my marathon as a coder.

This first entry is a small introduction and the begininning of a habit i'm trying to develop. as such, Let's begin:

As a hedonistic programmer, a lot of the fun and wonder i get is from seeing the potential of what programming can do and is doing behind the scenes of the things we take for granted. One of the reasons i struggled in my coding bootcamp was because they what javascript does, but not what it can do. huh? I hear you ask. let me clarify in human, you have a screwdriver, lets say a flathead (the minus symbol one) you know you can turn screws with it. turn the screw left the screw is loosened, turn it right, it gets tight. that's what it does, but you use that tool to tighten the screws on an engine you're building from scratch. sure you need to know how to use different tools but you know how to use them because you want to build that engine yourself. you see it being assembled in your mind and make it reality and the screwdriver is one of the tools you can use to make it happen. 
[Here's](https://youtu.be/BxV14h0kFs0) an example of what I mean, his video updates the title to reflect the video's view count on youtube. He wrote this in Javascript and rather than show us the code (i mean he did for a brief stint.), he showed the possibility and the philosophy that coincides with what he did. For me, knowing that i a non-techy tech person could do this is amazing. it excites me with the idea of creating something and learning how to make it possible, it gives purpose to my learning. In the bootcamp i learned how to console log and concatinate but i didn't know what to make with that. i had the knowledge but no purpose to remember it for. that was why i struggled. Back in August of this year(2021) i was watching [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gdSlcxxYAA8) at least i think it was this one, i watched three different ones in a row. And the presenter mentioned the game *Fizz Buzz* which if you don't know what that is, its a game where you count with a friend to 100 and every number divisible by 3 is *'Fizz'*, divisible by 5 is *'Buzz'*, and divisible by both 3 & 5 you say *'Fizz Buzz'*. And i liked the game that i decided i wanted to program a counter that did this all the way to 100, it was a fun little project that i wanna add to my app as it'd be a great drinking game. I put it on the backburner as i wanted to learn python to gain my confidence as a coder, then one day during one of my lessons i learned how to make while loops, elif, and division and the light bulb hit me that i now had the knowledge to make my *Fizz Buzz* counter! And after an 45 minutes of getting to work and and assorting the program correctly I got it to work! I had a Fizz Buzz counter!!!

That for me felt like my one of greatest accomplishments as i had written the program on my own without looking up anyone else's code. It reminded me why i grew to love coding and that i can still be a professional programmer if i try to learn on my own! So that's my advice to the new people and those with low confidence about this stuff. 
Look for something small and fun to make. it can be a fizz buzz counter or something along that line. *IT. DOES. NOT. HAVE. TO. BE. USEFUL.* In programming, you can sure as hell learn for the useless stuff probably more then the portfolio grade stuff you think you need. Tech companies are gonna look at your ability to solve their problems and figure out how to create the product their customer wants. that random stupid idea you have could be what gets you into the tech industry. Case in point, it wasn't until another tom scott video specifically on *Fizz Buzz* that i found out that it was an interview question and that i solved it on my own in the way that shows i'm a good programmer according to the video that literally screamed at the top of my lungs in triumph that I did an interview code challenge for fun and succeeded. It was a great confidence booster and made me want to try harder in my programming.

Now i have a new challenge, a friend of mine is an independent game maker who i will dub "Migraine Development" has asked me to make an original core feature in her game which we will call "Project Bard". The idea is to make a rythem game like guitar hero work while a jrpg battle happens at the same time. I spent this last week researching if this has been done before and if so how can i accomplish "Migraine Development's" goal....the only posts i found relating to the subject we're their forum questions! I did say this was an original idea right? So my next move was to analyze what they posted, and break down the project into steps.

Step One: Figure out how to make a plug-in for RPG Maker MV
Step Two: Make a rythem game in javascript
Step three: create a working connection between the plugin and their game. 

After these the following goal will be to add the specific features and parameters the client wants for the game and iron out the bugs that'll arise. So my goal for the next two weeks is to study how to make the plugin and create one that connects to RPG maker. The reason i give myself two weeks is because i really only have one day a week where i can sit down and study programming so i have to look up tutorials and information on my free time to prep for when i actually get to code.

I hope you enjoyed my first diary entry and remember *it's not just about what your does, but what you can do with it*.